
Butter Checken

Quick 20-minute butter chicken is creamy and packed full of flavor. It’s simplified and cooked all in one pan and goes great with a side of rice or naan! 

20 Minute Butter Chicken
Ever since moving to Alexandria, Virginia we’ve been in luck with all the Indian, Pakistani, and Aghani restaurants around us. We love the cuisine because it’s loaded with flavor and spice and is great for cold nights. One dish we keep going back for is the butter chicken. The spicy creaminess is unforgettable and always makes us go back for more!

I’ve been experimenting with my own version of home-made butter chicken over the past few weeks and I’ve finally found the perfect one. This simple no-fuss one pan butter chicken is just perfect. It’s simplified and does not require a whole bunch of ingredients, yet it’s packed with just the right amount of spice.



Easy 20 Minute Butter Chicken
4.75 from 48 votes
 
Prep Time: 5 minutesCook Time: 15 minutesTotal Time: 20 minutes Servings:  Author: Layla
Ingredients
1 tablespoon oil
1 tablespoon butter
1 medium onion diced
1 teaspoon fresh ginger finely minced or grated (or use paste)
2-3 cloves garlic finely minced or crushed
1 ½ pounds about 2-3 boneless, skinless chicken breasts, cut into ¾-inch chunks
1 can 6 oz. tomato paste (or 8-10 oz can of tomato sauce)
1 tablespoon garam masala
1 teaspoon  or paprika, adjust to taste
1 teaspoon Fenugreek I use powder, but seeds or mustard seeds can be used too, optional*
1 teaspoon 
1 tsp salt
1/4 tsp black pepper
1 cup heavy cream sub for half & half or yogurt for low fat
Hot cooked rice and naan for serving
Instructions
Heat a large skillet or medium saucepan over medium-high heat. Add the oil, butter, and onions and cook onions down until lightly golden, about 3-4 minutes. Add ginger and garlic and let cook for 30 seconds, stirring so it doesn’t burn.
Add the chicken, tomato paste, and spices. Cook for 5-6 minutes or until everything is cooked through.
Add the heavy cream and simmer for 8-10 minutes stirring occasionally. Serve over Basmati rice or with naan.
